hello and welcome to this me this week's Stella developer meeting today I have a guest and the guest is actually from my own team it's Elliot and and my own team it's Elliot and ell is going to talk about a project that he's been working on and it's it's that he's been working on and it's a fun project in our team and the deal team we talked about it should be fun to learn to to build on on stellar fun to learn to build on stellar and one of the ways can do that is to play around ourself and and build some play around ourself and build some some cool stuff we can play around with and hopefully you find find fun with and hopefully you find fun too and then of course there's a lot of learning involved in that so I'm very very excited to to introduce you to very excited to introduce you to to Eliot and and his pet project kale to Eliot and his pet project kale fil so maybe you can just give a little introduction to how how did this little introduction to how did this all get started I think has something to do with kale yeah so like Carson mentioned my my name is Elliot I am a
mentioned my name is Elliot I am a developer Advocate also here at SDF I get to be at Jack of all trades in a lot of ways and I love I've Loved for a long long time just messing around with Stellar having fun and just breaking stuff as you said Matias go I was reminiscing with Tyler earlier today about all the ways that we used to kind of like Jerry rig this chain of operations into creating some smart contract esque kind of thing but sorban is one-year-old today and we have actual official real life smart contracts on stellar and it's an amazing time to be developing in the community and it's an amazing time to be here having fun I think a lot of the time we get kind of like caught up in the seriousness of what we are doing here at stellar and the the real life
here at stellar and the real life implications of what we're building and sometimes there's just room for like something on the lighter side you know and so Tyler started that in that vein recently with kale I think it was back in November he kind of launched this and so I'll share my screen now and yes perfect and so kale if you aren't aware is sort of like this I'm going to m coins kind of asset built on Stellar that Tyler AKA kale pale introduced originally Enrique kind of created this SCM or fcm contract that initiated this sort of like mining competitive sort of asset concept and Tyler took that and kind of went in a more teamwork oriented kind of
Direction with it so if you aren't already I highly suggest you start mining some kale it's a lot of fun I'll demonstrate it's real easy real simple if you're not already logged in you can create a new account I'm actually going to cancel that because I already have one but I'm gonna log in and I'm presented with this oh that was the wrong one no it wasn't I'm presented with this this prompt that presented with this prompt that I can plant something and I'm GNA sign that with my pass key this is a smart wallet that I've been given to to plant and sort of get this opportunity to mine some kale and everybody is kind of in this together we're like communally Community Community Driven mining so to speak sort of like a pool if you've ever tried actually mining ether or Bitcoin or whatever
whatever and all of the people for about five minutes or so pull their efforts to kind of hash and create this like this hash that has a certain amount of zeros there's a lot of math if you click on Tyler's project repository here it'll take you to his GitHub where there's all kinds of stuff about how the math works and as a group of people it all yeah it all all gets mathed together and when you work and then eventually Harvest after a block has been successfully planted and revealed I don't know if that's the right word then everybody can Harvest and you get your kale back to you not back to you you get kale minted to you back to you get kale minted to you you can automate it with his website and you don't have to use this website to do
it but it's a lot of fun and it's honestly the easiest way to do it you C we've got a leaderboard here and you can see that Bri right here with her 3,000 or so is in the top 10 congratulations and yeah it's a lot of fun a lot of community is of fun a lot of community is kind of built up around this and and kind of built up around this and it's a really good time to check it out and to get involved the thing that everybody's been asking though is like I've got this kale I've got in this wallet one and a half or so oh I get to harvest one and a half or so kale that I've mined what do I do with it and up to now it's kind of been like not that much like there's not really a market for it you're not really like selling it and that's kind of by Design so what I created I'm
affectionately calling kale fail and Tyler really loves that name he's super excited about it and it's just sort of a riff a spin if you will on this this kale asset that Tyler's on this kale asset that Tyler's put together and so right now it is essentially a trading contract and this contract makes it possible for you to send kale just like his farming site you can sign up here with a smart wallet it'll give you a smart wallet and you can put some kale into that contract into your smart wallet and then you can trade it for right now we've got broccoli we've got cabbage we've got kabi if you don't know the farming lingo those are all different cultivars of the same species of plant as kale it's like really they're all the same thing which is why it's always tradable one to one and so I'm going to send like a 100 kale let's get some
broccoli back make the Trade sign with your smart wallet and then it thinks for a second and it thinks for a second longer and it thinks for one more second and 105 kale I mean broccoli now in my wallet let's do the same thing with with cabbage and it's essentially just the smart contract is holding on to the kale in the reserves and you can see this update date as the transactions go through it's holding it in reserve and it's minting new vegetables to me let's do Co Robbie as well I'm going to make a trade sign in and I'm going to get as many vegetables as I dang well please because I need the fiber or something I don't really know what vegetables are good for but now I'm sitting here I've got 100 each is of bro Oli cabbage col
Robie and the way I designed this contract is that it's kind of extensible if that's the right word I'm not entirely sure to allow you to allow the owner of the Trading Post to update their stock or add new vegetables take them away and kind of expand and grow as as the expand and grow as the arises so what I'm going to do here I'm going to copy paste this link into the chat as well and then I'm G to try my best to share a different window what if I do that and present and we can do this one does that work does everybody see that that cool NOP that's the wrong I don't want
that okay so the contract works it's pretty simple as far it's split into like owner customer kind of interfaces and really there's one function for the customer it's trade right you have an address for your customer what vegetable you want to trade how much of it and whether or not you're buying kale whether you're getting kale out of the exchange or if you are getting broccoli or whatever the case may be and it does it just makes sure that it's an actual vegetable that we have in stock it sets up a couple of clients depending on if you're buying kale or selling kale and then it it if it's selling kale and then it if it's kale that you're buying that means kale is going to be transferred from The Trading Post contract into your own wallet it's going to burn the broccoli or cabbage or whatever you're Trading and it's going to transfer from The
Trading Post contract into your customer wallet otherwise it's going to receive as the kale receive the kale into the Trading Post contract transfer and then it's going to Mint the vegetable into your smart wallet but I also have this owner interface that allows me to add vegetables when I see fit so if you'll all bear with me I'm going to try this without having done this before we're going to try this real real live I'm going to try this real live I'm going to add brussels sprouts Raph has been asking for brussels sprouts since the day I launched this so I figure it's probably time to give him what he wants so we're going to Stellar contract asset deploy deploy source is going to be kale Bale that's what I call it
network is main net and the asset is going to be this thing that I'm copy pasting right now so what you don't know is that Russell's Sprouts is far more than 12 characters which is the maximum amount that can be that can be an asset name so I had a real hard time landing on a proper abbreviation for what brussel's Sprouts should be okay so the asset is deployed so we will Stellar contract invoke source is kale fail no yes kale fail network is main net ID is going to be whatever whatever this asset contract was and we're going going to invoke the
was and we're going to invoke the set admin function new admin is going to be the Trading Post contract address and the transaction is signing and submitting and then we get transaction successful where where is it successful where is it true cool I always look for that now we get to add it to our Trading Post F contract invoke Source kale fail Network main net ID is the Trading Post contract and we're going to invoke the add add vegetables function new NOP it's called veg doubles
to add because I am real creative mattius and we're going to make an array of or vector rather of addresses if we wanted to do more than one and then we invoke simulation's okay submission looks like it's okay let's go back to I know I'm giving you guys Whiplash with all of these window switches okay now we go back to kale fail and if we're lucky yes the vegetables available are now including brussels
sprouts so I'm going to snatch up some of of that BR Sprouts is about the closest thing it was my wife's idea she actually enjoys brussel sprouts which is sin basically but now I am the first one with my very own Russell Sprouts be sure to grab some on your own I've got a couple things up next for kale fail number one is that it's a pain in the butt to sign up for kale fail for kale mine some kale and get some stuff there and then also have to sign up for kale fail transfer the tokens do all that before you can actually do anything so I'm going to set up an ad signer kind of functionality where you can log in to kale fail with your existing kale wallet I'm excited for that should be really soon able to do that next thing after
that is this kitchen that Tyler and jrome have been itching to get a hold of soon we'll have a salad like nft basically just kind of a pretty simple like let's trade your Co tokens burn the vegetables and and give you a really vegetables and give you a really pretty picture of a salad or something else I'm not sure what other produce related things might be in store but soon after that got in mind for like more fancier nfts if any of you have been around for like four or so years and remember the smart nfts that Tyler put together some maybe interesting Concepts similar to that but actually on soron and even maybe like Community submitted recipes or other kinds of nft goodness fun things that can be voted on maybe and approved and all that kind of stuff I'm super open to any
ideas you guys have or anything that people kind of generally want to see or what do you want to do with your kale maybe we can make it happen but yeah that is kale fail in a nutshell everybody go have some fun enjoy the AI art that I stole from Tyler's site to begin with and read all of the Fantastic lore that Bri has put together like it is phenomenal all of the like five whole chapters like it's a freaking novel go enjoy it great great thank you for for the it great thank you for the presentation and and and actually this presentation and and actually this is a fun game it's fun I is a this is a fun game it's fun I think we all got a little bit addicted to farming kale and and it's it's to farming kale and it's really fun but when you think about it what what if we take kale and kale fail it it's actually a defi application because it has the elements of a defi
application it's just gamified a little bit and instead of using real token names or real coin names real asset names we're using are you using kale and broccoli and brussel sprouts but but broccoli and brussel sprouts but this is actually a defi this is actually a defi application and and and as you application and and as you are switching between when you're trading kale for for broccoli I I trading kale for broccoli I hope hope a lot of people noticed that you're just using pass keys there there was no using pass keys there was no complicated wallet access or anything like that just use just Ed the a pass key so so this is actually it's a good key so this is actually it's a good example if if if developers want to example if if developers want to play around and see what what can you play around and see what can you build on on Stella what can you build on on Stella and with soran and and how is this build and with soran and how is this build because underneath all the the the fun because underneath all the the fun stuff it is actually a defi application and there's there's a lot of there's a and there's a lot of sorant features like like pass
lot of sorant features like pass Keys that's included in this so there's a lot of learning that goes into understanding how this works and lot of inspiration and and it's a good inspiration and it's a good sample project if if you want to learn sample project if you want to learn more about this so yeah any any other more about this so yeah any other fun Tech that I I left out that I didn't fun Tech that I left out that I didn't mention that that you can learn from mention that you can learn from looking at the the source code here yeah looking at the source code here yeah the source code is definitely here like available on the kale fail site like easy to get to it's a spelt kit application if you're like into front-end libraries and Frameworks and stuff that's just kind of how my brain works to build in that but to your point that everything is Pass Key powered like this contract this smart wallet that I have CB WN whatever whatever doesn't have to hold like this space reserve of lumens there's no lumens that it holds s in oh it's
$163 sweet it doesn't have to hold any xlm to operate on the network everything is done through launch tube so it's like this pay Master service that really abstracts the gas fees sequence numbers transaction envelopes all the like difficult things about building on Stellar sometimes is like just taken care of and so like no fees come out of this come out of my smart wallet wallet same is true for when you're mining kale it's all done through launch tube and it's just this incredible opportunity to use these smart wallets to like just have a wallet that you can like hand to somebody you don't have to tell them like okay now buy lumens from coinbase and do this to get your wallet set up it's just ready for users to actually use so yeah you you just mentioned use so yeah you just mentioned launch tube and maybe if if everyone launch tube and maybe if everyone is not familiar with what launch tube is
can you maybe go into yeah little bit of details how you're using launch tube and what role it plays in this yeah so launch tube is a service that we're kind of pioneering to make it easier for applications and developers to build applications that use Stellar like when you are trying to build a transaction you need a sequence number you need an account to pay that sequence number you need a balance to pay those fees you need a Base reserve held in the wallet like one Lumen minimum to like make sure that your account is active like a minimum balance requirement at some banks and all that can kind of be a pain for a developer if you're trying to get users set up on their wallet so that they can actually interact with the blockchain so you got to either sponsor or give them one Lumen to satisfy That
Base reserve you have to pay whatever fees for those transactions to actually hit the network launch tube though is in you get assigned transaction from the user using my pass key wallet for these examples and then you send that transaction to launch tube and launch tube will take care of the sequence number the fee paid all like the developer has to worry about is getting a like a token with valid launch tube credits on it and that's super easy barely an inconvenience if you go to test net. launch tube. XYZ genen it'll give you one for free if you want a a real life mainnet one jump you want a real life mainnet one jump into the launch Tu channel in our Discord or reach out to myself for Tyler or carsten Chris any of the
developer Advocates would be more than happy to provide you with launch tube credentials so that you can start building in this same like super easy super streamlined way I feel like I didn't fully answer that that sorry that's great so yeah I can only encourage everyone to go play farm some kale do some trading get your broccoli other vegetables and and and broccoli other vegetables and and then go look at the source code because this this is in this is a really cool application it it really shows a lot of application it really shows a lot of different features of of Stella and different features of Stella and soran so go have fun with it and and go soran so go have fun with it and go look at the source code and and learn look at the source code and learn how Elliot built this so I think this was all we have time for today unless we have a couple of questions I don't think we have one but you there still a for the quick there is an opportunity to ask a question
anybody sweet doesn't look like it but thank you so much for joining Elliot it was fun to see kale it was fun to see kale Phil and yeah hope everyone is having fun with it thank you have a great day bye